Welcome back everyone to this lecture on importing and exporting data in this lecture.
We're going to be exploring the import export functionality of P.G. admin which allows us to import
data from a C as we file or text file to an already existing table.
There are some really important notes to keep in mind however when you're using the import export functionality
the first important note is to realize that not every outside data file will work variations and things
like formatting macros embedded in the file data types.
Data mis alignment et cetera may prevent the import command from reading the file if the file is just
not compatible to be worked with inside of sequel.
You're just going to have to either edit your file or change your existing table to make sure it aligns
correctly with your existing data file if you want more details about compatible file types and examples
online they're available to you in the online documentation which can reach up post Chris equal to org
slash docs slash twelve slash sequel Dash.
Copy the copy command is what import uses internally when it's actually running the secret code to import
things through the P.G. adamant graphical user interface the next important note is that you must provide
the one hundred percent correct file path to your outside file.
Otherwise the import command will fail to find the file.
This is really similar to when we're restoring files based off the DOT tar file.
If you do not provide the correct location PGI admin will fail to find the file.
So I always ask you to confirm the file location underneath the files properties tab and we'll show
you how to do that.
In this lecture and the most important note the import command does not create a table for you.
This is probably the biggest misconception among beginners with Postgres sequel and trying to create
a table from a CSP file or from Excel file it is actually not possible to use basic Postgres sequel
commands in order to immediately create a table from a dot CSC file or excel file the copy command for
Postgres sequel and the import functionality for PGI admin work under the assumption that the table
is already created.
There is currently no automated way within standard P.G. admin or standard Postgres sequel to create
a table directly from a thought CSB file.
Now if that being said I have posted a couple of external links to this lecture that may help you explore
different methods of trying to create a function that will automatically create a table based off the
header names of a dot CSC file.
So you're essentially splitting up now into two parts.
In this lecture we're going to create the table manually but as you can imagine there's a couple of
tools that people have built to try to automate that process.
However these tools are not part of standard PGI admin or standard postgrad sequel.
So instead we've posted them as external links since as PGI admin changes and as Postgres sequel goes
through various versions they may break their functionality a certain point.
So we're going to show you stuff here that we know will always work regardless of what version of sequel
or P.G. atom and you're using OK so now let's go ahead and work through an example through PGE Ataman
OK.
Here I am in my browser.
I am right now in tight P.G. admin but what I'm also going to do is I'm going to go to Google Drive
and I'm going to create a very simple CSP file underneath this spreadsheet application.
You can really use any spreadsheet application here that can export to a dot CSP.
So what I'm going to do is just call this simple underscore table and what this is going to do is I'm
going to have two columns in a column and a B column.
It's going to give you three.
Why not ABC.
And then let's put in some values here.
So one two three say four five six and then seven eight nine.
Okay super simple table then what I'm going to do is I'm just going to say this onto my computer.
So I'm going to doubtless download this excuse me as a dot CSP file so a comma separated values.
If you have an excel file open we can do is you can save it as a dot CSC file.
OK so I'm going to download this as a dot c as we file and now it's going to be available for me underneath
my downloads folder.
So what I'm going to do is just to make sure and confirm I know exactly where this is.
Let's show it inside the downloads folder and if I bring in my downloads folder.
So right now I have downloads my downloads simple table what I'm going to do is just rename this so
that it doesn't have any spacing and I'm just going to rename this let's say simple table the CSP.
So there's no spacing within that that CSC file.
And what I also want to do is I want to confirm its actual location.
Keep in mind I won't be able to know where your dot CSP file is on your computer.
So what I'm going to do is I can confirm this by checking out the properties of this file and I can
see here the full file location.
So this is extremely similar to what we did in the dot tar file.
And you can always just do a simple google search for how to get the full file path.
If you're on a Mac OS computer or on a Linux computer or whatever your operating system is.
So right now I'm on windows so I can just look up the properties to get the full location.
So this is the information I'm going to be providing to postgrad sequel later on along with the name
of my file so to OK here and I renamed my file.
I know its location.
Those steps are done.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to come over here to PGE admin they close a little tab here.
All right.
So in P.G. admin what I'm going to do is I have my test database that we've used in a couple of the
lectures in this section of the course I'm going to open up my query tool and it's time for me to create
a table.
Now the table has to match up with the format of my dot CSP file.
Exactly.
So I have three columns a b and c..
So let's go ahead and create these.
So I will say create table simple and there'll be three columns here a b and c and then let's have it
be all integer data type so Integer Integer and integer.
OK.
There's no constraints.
Very simple table as you can imagine if you had a more complex CSC file you could expand on this adding
constraints and so on.
So next one I'm going to do is I'm going to run this and now that created my table.
So it's time to actually copy the information that is within that CSP file and put it into this table.
So how do we actually do this.
Well I'm going to show you that the table exists.
So you should be able to now say select everything from simple run that and have a b and c empty there's
no rows yet.
Now the next step is to use P.G. admins import export functionality to actually grab the information
from that external dot CSP file.
So what I'm going to do here is the first thing.
Let's just quickly refresh our database to make sure that we have those changes within the simple table
ready to go.
And it should pretty much be confirmed because we were able to actually query that simple table Expand
the.
Test me database and then go ahead and expand schemas and then expand the public schema.
And later on you should see tables and then the simple table we created along with the corresponding
columns A B and C.
And so you can actually export the contents of any table as a dot CSP file or as a dot text file and
then likewise you can import information externally.
So we right click on the table itself right click on that simple table and you should see something
called import export.
Go ahead and click on that.
And this is the import export tool.
So this allows us to actually either export information as a dot see as we file or that text file or
if I hit this little switch.
Now I can import information notice when I hit import suddenly P.J. Edmonds ask me for a file name which
makes sense because I need to somehow provide the information on where to import from.
So let me zoom out just a little bit so we can see everything that's happening here.
Expand this again right here.
OK.
So it's time to get the file name and the way I'm going to do that is we have two options just like
for the DB the rental lot tar file in the exercise up tar file restore.
You can either manually type in the file or you can hit these three dots and begin exploring your computer
for the actual files are.
So if I hit here under my downloads I have simple table dot CSP and then I can select.
You may need to show hidden files and folders and you may need to play around with this format to show
0 for all files or CSP files or text files if you have it as just CSB then it should show you that that
CSC file we created earlier.
So I'm going to select this.
Now if for some reason you hit those three dots and regardless of what options you're choosing you still
don't see your file.
That's totally okay.
You just provide the full file path manually so you can always type in manually here.
What the Fool file path is so that way regardless of where the file is on your computer you just pass
in the full file path.
OK want to make sure our format matches up so that CSP.
So that's also correct and now we have to go through a couple of options here.
The first one is if we see the columns tab it's going to report you the columns to import.
And what's nice is you can remove these columns if they don't happen to be present in your table.
So if for some reason you had an extra D column in your CSP file you could just close that off or exit
it and remove it and then you wouldn't be copying that information into your table.
Now if we come back to options what I'm going to do is I have to declare whether or not there is a header
within the file the header is just the first row that contains the column names A B and C that is present
in our CSP file and I don't want to duplicate information by having insertion inserting the information
of ABC.
So I just say yes there's a header and that lets postcard sequel No.
OK.
I will ignore that first row so I won't copy that over.
Next we have to choose the delimiter so we can select from a list.
So here I'm going to select comma since it's a comma separated file.
Then you can also specify the quoting character being used so default is double quote but if you have
strings and your that CSP file that are using single quotes you can just go ahead and select single
quote In our case it does really matter since there were all integers and then here we have escape which
if there is an escape value essentially ignoring a particular character call you can specify that through
escape for our very simple file to worry about either of those we'll go ahead and now hit.
OK they'll say import export job created and you should see now successfully completed if you get some
sort of error here it's extremely likely that you provided the wrong file path.
So triple check that you're providing the correct file path.
OK so now that the copying of table data is done well we're gonna go ahead and do is rerun our select
everything from simple.
So now when I rerun this notice I have successfully imported the data from that CSP file into my table
here inside of P.G. at and to conclude this lecture.
Let's go ahead and show you how you can also run the export functionality which is almost the exact
same process what you do is you decide on whatever table you want to export to adopt CSP file.
Go ahead and right click on that then select import export and then we already by default have it on
export.
You can decide what columns you want to actually copy over export.
Maybe you don't want all the columns exported and then what you need to do is just basically where you
actually want to save the file you can provide a file name.
So if I want it underneath my downloads what I can do is I can copy this and go ahead and click cancel
there.
I'm going to copy that in there and then let's call this my new DOT CSP.
Essentially I'm just gonna provide the full file path of where I actually want to save this file and
its name.
And then after that you can choose the delimiter you want to export with.
So I'll export with a comma and then if there's any string characters that you want to use quotes around
you can decide if you want double quotes or single quotes.
Essentially the exact same things as we did before for importing.
You can also choose encoding if you need to.
Then you'll just hit.
OK and then that will export the file which you should now see if I bring over my downloads folder I
can see my new CSC has now been created along with the original simple table that CSC.
OK.
So that's pretty much it for exporting.
Exactly.
Very similar to the import process.
Do you just select export instead.
Thanks.
And I'll see you at the next lecture.